Welcome, folks! In this lesson,
we'll be comparing the workspace feature offered across Terraform Cloud and
Terraform open source offerings.
The workspace feature offered in the freely available Terraform version
basically creates alternate state files against code in the same directory.
It does that so you can issue multiple,
distinct deployments against the same code. For example,
you could have a workspace for developer deployments and another workspace for
production deployments set against the same Terraform code.
It does that by creating a separate directory within main Terraform directory
called the 'terraform.tfstate.d' directory,
where it houses a folder for each state file tracked by the different
workspaces. Now,
remember that this is the way the Terraform OSS workspace (or Open Source
workspace) feature works.
We have already gone through a lesson where we discussed the Terraform Cloud
workspaces. So in this lesson,
our main objective would be to compare and contrast the OSS workspace and the
Cloud workspace feature offered by Terraform.
We'll be comparing namely the components -- that is the configuration, secrets,
variables -- and we'll be comparing them against the normal workspace --
that is, the local or Terraform OSS workspace -- and the Cloud workspace.
So let's start off with the Terraform configuration or code.
In the Terraform OSS workspace, your code is stored on disk. Whereas,
in Cloud workspace, it is stored in linked version control repository --
so something like GitHub or Bitbucket --
or it can also be periodically uploaded via API or CLI
calls to the Terraform workspaces in the cloud. For local workspaces,
variables are stored in the .tfvars files,
as CLI arguments, or in shell environment.
So this would be on your own local system. Whereas, in the Cloud workspace,
all the variables associated with the deployment are stored in the Terraform
cloud itself.
The state file for the OSS workspace is stored on disk or
in a remote backend configured by you. Whereas,
in the Cloud workspaces, the state files are stored in the workspace.
And finally,
credentials and secrets are stored either in shell environments or entered at
prompts when you're issuing 'terraform apply' command. Whereas,
in Cloud workspace,
credentials and secrets are stored in the workspace configuration as sensitive,
hidden variables.
So now that we have compared and contrasted both these features,
you'll notice that they are trying to offer the same utility; however,
one of them is more managed and built for collaboration across teams.
So this introduction was a comparison between Terraform Open Source workspace
feature and the Terraform Cloud workspace feature.
Thank you for going through this lesson.