Hello, Cloud Gurus, and welcome to this section summary of our section 9,
Terraform Cloud and Terraform Enterprise offerings.
So let's go through what we really went through in this section. The first part
was the security best practices.
So you've got the best practices for securing your secrets --
that is the secrets which are going to be used in your deployments --
as well as the deployment code itself,
so that it's not doing anything malicious and spinning up thousands of EC2
instances.
So we learned about Sentinel and how it enforces the security inside your code
so that the code does not do something malicious or dangerous.
And Sentinel has its own language, that's what we learned.
We also learned about the Vault Provider,
which is a secrets management software,
and it can securely inject secrets on the fly into your Terraform code,
and it can also rotate them, encrypt them, and also encrypt them in transit.
Moving on, we learned about Terraform workspaces. We learned about the
difference in Terraform Open Source and the Terraform Cloud workspaces.
How Terraform OSS workspaces generate and drag different state files against the
same Terraform code in a directory, which is hosted locally on your system;
however, you can save the state files in a backend configured by you.
And as for Terraform Cloud workspaces, we noted that it is hosted in the cloud,
which is obviously managed by Terraform, and it can track configuration or code,
variables, state, and secrets.
And if you want to interact with it programmatically,
Terraform Cloud workspaces also have an API for that. And finally,
we summarized the benefits and features of Terraform Cloud,
which were generally themed around collaboration, such as API-based workflows,
version control, and trigger-based deployments.
It also offered the nice feature of Sentinel integration,
which is policy-as-code framework and enables you to vet your code before it
goes out and gets deployed.
And also some of the other features which make Terraform Cloud lucrative are
cost estimation, shared workspaces, and access-based controls.
So this, in a nutshell,
was what we covered throughout the section of Terraform Cloud and Enterprise.
Thank you for going through this lesson.