Hey, Cloud Gurus. Welcome to this lesson.
As we wrap up the course and our preparation for the HashiCorp Certified
Terraform Associate exam. HashiCorp
has some really nice documentation around preparation for the exam.
There are three resources in particular on the official site,
which I would like to bring your attention to.
The first one is the exam study guide. The second one is the exam review guide,
and then we've got these sample questions that are available on the official
HashiCorp website.
The exam study guide lists the resources you should study if you're preparing
for the exam from scratch.
The resources listed are in order of difficulty so that you can progress to the
list in that order. You've
got the exam review guide,
which has a direct mapping of each HashiCorp Certified Terraform Associate exam
objective to where it is covered in the HashiCorp's documentation and training.
So, you can go down under this table and map where the documentation for this
objective resides. For example, explain what IaC is,
is giving you two links to within the HashiCorp documentation,
but you can go and read up about this objective.
So this is pretty neat for when you are summarizing your preparation and going
through a quick revision as well.
And then we have the sample questions,
which give you an idea of what to expect in the exam. So,
we've got true and false, multiple choice questions,
which actually show you the snippets of code,
which you might come across in the exam.
So, let's talk about preparing for the exam.
Because Terraform as a tool was born out of need to automate cloud deployments,
it's recommended to come into this exam with basic understanding or
working of at least one public cloud vendor, such as AWS or GCP.
If you're unfamiliar with the public cloud,
I would highly recommend to go through A Cloud Guru's
catalog on the public cloud. The
exam stresses not only on how, why, and when to use Terraform,
but also on the best practices when using Terraform.
Among them is the security best practice. For example,
using Sentinel and Vault Provider with Terraform.
You need to know that Terraform workflow very well because it will help enable
better DevOps practices and collaboration.
Not to mention that the Terraform commands adhere to this workflow of write,
plan, and apply.
Going into the exam, you need to be familiar with a few commands,
which you'll be using day-in, day-out when actually working with Terraform,
commands such as init, plan, apply,
state, format, and validate. Just to name a few.
One thing that I can't stress enough when working with Terraform and also going
into this exam is to know that Terraform state mechanism very, very well.
Because this is a feature critical to Terraform's working.
Without being able to keep track, Terraform would not work at all. So,
know about the state command, why, and when to use it, the state file,
ways of securing it and using it for collaboration.
Because you may get snippets of code to look at for answering questions.
It would be best to familiarize yourself with HCL or HashiCorp configuration
language. Almost all the code that you've seen in the course is in HCL.
We've got extensive labs and demos on both HCL as well as Terraform state
mechanism. So, be sure to go through them to solidify your concept.
A section of the exam objectives is dedicated to Terraform cloud and its
enterprise offering. So, when you go into the exam,
know what's the difference between Terraform open-source or OSS and
paid offerings, such as Terraform enterprise offering,
which offers Sentinel integration cost estimation on Terraform plan runs,
storage of state in Terraform cloud by default.
Know that there are different pay tiers and also know the difference between
Terraform OSS workspace and Terraform cloud workspaces.
I will urge you to get hands-on the Terraform. So,
go through all the labs in this course,
try to finish them without any hints or instructions as that's the best way to
learn Terraform. Finally,
a few reminders before I finish this lesson and let you ride off into the
sunset.
The exam tests you on Terraform version 0.12 and higher.
If you've worked with versions older than 0.12,
then please note that there has been drastic changes in the syntax for HCL as
well as ton of new features being added post version 0.12. So,
be sure to practice with version 0.12 or higher for this exam.
The exam will have between 57 to 60 questions. Though,
I've heard from other test takers specific numbers like 57 too,
but we'll keep it within this ballpark.
Our trick that I use to help me through my attempt of this exam was to flag
questions, which I found I could not answer right away.
I would try my best to narrow down the correct options and move ahead.
Although there's no guarantees of this,
but sometimes later questions in the exam can actually help answer or eliminate
incorrect choices from earlier questions that you might have flagged. So,
try not to waste too much time or overthink about one single question when going
through the exam for the first time. So,
this is it we're done wrapping up.
I would like to congratulate all of you who have gone through this course.
Pat yourself, on the back for all your hard work.
I hope you feel excited, not just for the exam and passing it,
but for all the knowledge that you've gained about Terraform and using it in the
real world. In the end,
I'd like to thank you all for choosing to go through the course and giving me an
opportunity to be your guide. It's been an honor. From A Cloud Guru,
this is Moosa Khalid signing off.